
Akasha Pain
akashapain@example.com


8yrs experience in the functional areas of human resources with robust
generalist capabilities and proven business partner experience in a rapidly
changing environment along with adequate understanding of organizational
dynamics. work closely with leadership/ management; implementing and
driving people strategy for the business; analyzing and presenting
information to the management team for business enablement; driving and
supporting cross-group and cross-region client and hr initiatives.

specialties: employee relations, counseling, talent engagement, hr policies
and procedures, rewards and recognition, career development / mentoring,
analytics. anchored and project managed large scale events.

core competencies
. detail-oriented, work well under pressure, and have the flexibility to
deal with multiple changing priorities. . sound consulting skills and
decision-making skills . strong interpersonal and organizational skills .
ability to travel as necessary . ability to work with spreadsheets,
presentation, word.

professional experience

role: assistant manager human resources - hr advisor
ocwen financials private ltd- oct 2014 till date

currently been assigned total employee strength of 500+employees, with key
focus on employee relations and advisory role to the department heads
assigned. actively been part of the performance management system for the
year 2014 - stack ranking, normalization discussions, promotions, budgeting
and compensation increments. other projects - attrition management,
reporting, forming and participated in harassment committee formalization.

maternity break from nov 2012 to till date

. underwent a certification course in storytelling
. undergone a rigorous training with helen o grady academy of dance and
drama for a faciliator's role in speech and drama for kids in the age group
of 3-17yrs. engaged with premier schools like dps sarjapur, diamond stone
international and little elly preschool.

role: talent engagement manager - sap & ites divsions of rbei
robert bosch technology soultions india (rbei) from nov 2010 to nov 2012
joined the with employee relations experience in order to deploy talent
engagement as a new role.
 . actively engage with over 1100 associates through structured
 interactions, as well as regular communications formally and
 informally.
 . facilitate proactive engagement conversations between associates and
 their managers, mentors etc.
 . be the voice of the associates in reflecting issues back to management
 and ensure timely resolution of issues.
 . provide inputs for improving the effectiveness of processes, policies
 on talent management.
 . steer and participate in career development discussions and follow to
 closure on action points.
 . played active role in rolling out important initiatives such as
 onboarding, engagement initiatives, retention, attrition analysis
 metrics.


role: manager human resources
new wave computing private limited from oct 2009 to oct 2010

responsible for overseeing, designing, developing, managing and
implementing key human resources programs for the organization including a
core focus on employee development, performance management, recruiting,
motivation and retention.

also responsible for:

 . defining and interpreting policy and procedures in support of human
 resources decisions in this team.
 . provide direction and guidance to line management on issues such as
 employee relations, compensation, benefits, management development,
 employee involvement initiatives, training and succession planning.
 . maintain a strong customer focus to proactively introduce and deliver
 the most effective and timely human resources services to meet business
 objectives.
 . coordinate human resources-related communication activities.
 . coordinate the ongoing use and administration of the human resources
 data systems through the manager, hris.


projects & accomplishments

 > review of the existing hr polices and systems
 > introduced compensation banding and levels within the organization
 > implemented quarterly one-on-one meetings at all levels
 > successfully implements 30-day enablement plans for new joiners
 > developed and delivered workshops - soft skills such as - "email
 etiquettes", how to review"

role: senior hr executive
ness technologies india private limited
bangalore
from nov 2006 to july 2009

 . work as a partner with the business leaders to develop and implement hr
 plans to support the business objectives (spanning 700 employees)
 . support implementation of various hr practices and processes
 . manage employee relations activities, including counseling, recreational
 activities; administer corporate policies and benefits as applicable and
 facilitate employee orientation
 . as a part of the selection process, conduct hr interviews of candidates
 and make recommendations on hiring decisions and compensation. skilled in
 behavioral interviewing techniques and resume review. participate in walk-
 ins, laterals and freshers
 . develop, extract, maintain and update key hr metrics and other workforce
 management data such as turnover, recruitment, projected requirements,
 demographic profiles, terminations and skill shortages, etc
 . other practices - criticality / stability analysis, aging analysis, one
 on ones and skip level meetings, focus group meetings with teams, all
 hands meeting, policy road shows
 . independently investigate disciplinary issues, be part of consensus
 decision, act as neutral party and ensure that fair and consistent action
 is taken
 . actively involved in the complete administration of performance appraisal
 process for the unit in charge, ensure tracking, analysis and take it to
 closure

projects & accomplishments

 > won "best employee of the quarter award", q3 2008
 > designed and implemented a more useful exit process and documentation
 > co-authored sections of company's policies and procedures manual
 > as part of the competency development team, designed and co-authored
 job descriptions


role: hr executive
infosys technologies
bangalore
from nov 2005 to oct 2006

as part of the corporate hr - compensation and benefits
 . reviewing and documenting hr policies and review
 . single point of contact for all india related policies and also
 communication of the same org-wide
 . data collection and analysis from various sources (mercer, hewitt and the
 internet)


as part of the bp hr role - main activities/responsibilities
partnering with the business to facilitate its growth, deployment and
engagement plans, retention and in doing so create and maintain a 'small
company' environment for employees. managing employee strength of 800 for
the product engineering division.


employee relations & employee engagement activities
 . single point of contact for employee queries and guidance on policies &
 procedures. handling employee grievances and counseling
 . employee satisfaction (esat) actionizing
 . responsible for conducting unit level induction
 . plan & conduct skip level, brown bag lunch & open houses
 . facilitate rewards and recognition activities
performance management
 . conducting first time appraisee and appraiser workshops
 . implementation of the corporate & unit level appraisal guidelines amongst
 employees.


role: hr executive
p&o nedlloyd it services private ltd (presently maersk)
chennai
from jan 2004 to nov 2005

 . focal point for on-boarding processes (includes induction, background
 checks, etc.), staff records management process, confirmation &
 separation/settlement processes (includes exit interview, intelligence
 gathering and mining)
 . implementation of corporate policy and procedures
 . partnership and coordination on initiatives: performance management,
 training and compensation & benefits
 . handling the hiring activity for the company, this involves sourcing
 specialized profiles, scheduling interviews and salary discussion.
 . administration of predictive index


qualifications
 . mba in hrd from icfai business school (cgpa of 7.18 on a scale of 10),
 2004
 . b.a. (economics) from stella maris college with 70.2%, 2002

training/workshops
 . participated in beginners workshop for neuro linguistic programming 2009
 . participated in training for behavioral event interviewing skills by
 middle earth consultants.
 . storytelling by the storywallahs


computer literacy
 . ms windows, ms office, peoplesoft hrms (1.5yrs experience)
-----------------------
 sarjapur road bangalore
 akashapain@example.com
 cell ph: 9876543004


