


 Razzil Darkbrew 
 #u7/23, 3rd floor, dlf phase iii, gurgaon-122002
 email: razzildarkbrew@example.edu;razzildarkbrew@example.com
 mobile :+91-9876543003

 seeking assignments in hr with a reputed organization.


education:
|xlri school of |personnel |2005-07 |rank 30 in a batch|
|business and human|management and | |of 65 |
|resource, |industrial | | |
|jamshedpur |relations | | |
|nit, rourkela |btech mechanical |1998-02 |rank 6th in the |
| |engineering | |batch of 78 |
|junior govt |science |1995-97 |rank 2 in the |
|college, rourkela | | |college |
|ispat vidyalaya, |sse |1995 |rank 14 in orissa |
|sector-18, | | | |
|rourkela | | | |


 professional snapshot
 - over 7 years experience in the areas of human resource functionties,
 process management
 - currently associated with freelancer consultant - talent and rewards
 - proficient in job analysis, evaluation and implementation of support
 system, talent management, engagement and development for adopting such
 changes
 - proficient in hr analytics and engagement interventions and impact
 analysis- optimization of information storage and retrieval.
 - proficient in designing compensation surveys, administration of
 differential investment in human capitals and monitoring the impact.
 - possess excellent interpersonal, communication and organizational skills
 with proven abilities in team management, manpower planning, organization
 design and training calendar.
 - experience of conceptuzing & implementing various quty improvements
 projects and conducting audits for continual improvements in the
 services.
 - a keen communicator with honed problem solving and analytical abilities

 areas of exposure
rewards:
 - preparation of unique job roles in the system and segregated in terms of
 the strategic, tactical and operational activities for each of unique
 roles
 - evaluation of jobs on point systems and adhoc systems and assigning the
 job families and bands.
 - compensation benchmarking survey preparations and administrations
 - designing template to capture the vital elements of job performances,
 metrics' and support systems (approval mechanism) for each of the job
 elements
 - rationzation of manpower cost and numbers & monitor the cost metrices.

hrd initiatives
 - organization change and design: org analysis and issue identification,
 initial hypothesis on course of correction and opportunity sizing,
 function by function vdation of issues, deep dive into specifics and
 role descriptions, identification of roles/positions and adjustment
 criteria, design role charters for new/revised roles, communicate to the
 organization, manage transition, onboarding and stabilization with new
 ways of working
 - employee engagement: coordination of survey, data analysis,
 identification of drivers for engagement interventions, generation of
 action planning for engagement interventions and closure of the same
 - employee reward and recognition: facilitation of r & r scheme
 - talent management: identification of potential- performance grid and
 development of talent pipeline, succession plans for critical positions,
 generation of idps for hipos and low performing employees


change management identification and implementation areas
 - conducting the change readiness, impact and stakeholder management,
 identification of stakeholders, creating the change champion,
 communication plans and supporting for knowledge transfer to the
 implementation team.
 - part of e-pms implementation team. optimizing the resources, training of
 the hr experts to make the changes as smooth processes.
 - organization change and design issue identification and resolving the
 issues on people, process and system.
 - identification and revdation of generic and functional competencies
 and proficiency assignment at various job roles.
 - identification of drafting the cultural interventions through the focus
 group discussion, dipstick survey and voes and action plan for improving
 the parameters.


performance management system:
 - conducting the gap analysis of the performance management system and
 suggestion of improvement areas
 - incorporated the balanced scorecard approach/key success factors to gn
 with the organizational objectives
 - identifying the key result area, key performance indicator of each of the
 group of jobs ensuring the proper cascading from organizational
 objectives/targets.
 - proficient in administering the assessment centers - using the relevant
 competency dictionary, designing and vdating the competency
 instruments and creation of development plan post competency assessment.


process improvement and hr analytics
 - design and implementation of new system, solutions, functionties for
 hris
 - process mapping and due diligence for any ongoing developments
 - handling the sap queries and maintaining the data
 - creation of systems - macros in spreadsheet, different functionties in
 assess for internal systems.


 experience details
oct 2014 till date as a freelancer consultant
 - involved in the designing the job family structure for one of the major
 auto-manufacturing client in india
 scope of the project
 o understanding the hr maturity framework for going ahead with
 creation of job family - identification of unique roles,
 evaluation of roles and regning the organization structure
 based on technical knowledge, problem solving ability and
 accountability frameworks
 o redesigned the merit increment & annual performance bonus payout
 template taking into the je maps with market, performance-
 potential grid and compa-ratio
 - talent management - improving the talent pipeline through structured
 intervention
 scope:
 o designing the job description and role expectation framework for
 improving the performance pipeline
 - hr transformation project
scope
 - digitization of data in the erp system and utilizing erp system for other
 transactional processes
 - process map for all systems vis--vis existing manual/semi-automated
 processes.
 - creation of shared service account for better gnment with the business
 - creation of separate organization unit for the manpower deployed at the
 sales retail outlets.
 previous assignment


june 14 to oct 2014 ey llp as principal consultant- advisory people &
organization.
a professional advisory firm in taxation, advisory, transaction and
assurance

highlights
projects:
preparation of proof of concepts on the job evaluation and delivering the
compensation bench marking study for one of the family owned stock exchange
located in middle east
scope of the project:
 - gap analysis of the current and to be performance management system and
 using the outcome of the same for other support systems
 - compensation bench marking using the internal & external parity
 - gning the compensation structure for expats and nationals of the said
 stock exchange.

1. hr culture audit for the in-house gss and gth hub to deliver the next
level growth strategy
 - interacted with senior leadership team for the culture audit of gss and
 gth of ey llc for next level growth strategy. designing the survey
 questionnaire, industry benchmark and workshops for project handing over
 to the project management office for implementation.
 - change readiness plan for the new entity
2. developing the new pms framework, compensation benchmarking study
 - led the team developing the pms framework for next level growth strategy
 for the leading exchange corporation at abu dhabi
 - compensation benchmarking for pivot positions
3. review and redesign remuneration framework of one of the largest telecom
majors in gcc
 - reviewed the current remuneration structure and benchmark the same
 against the gcc markets, telecom majors
 - provided options for revised remuneration structure with cost impact
 - framing the new long term incentive system for the senior management
 including the eva analytics and esop plans
4. high potential programs in ey, gth
 - vdation of the behavioural competency framework (bcfs) to support the
 next level business drives in one of the divisions under gth, india
 - conduct the assessment centre and articulated the idps in coordination
 with the talent team of ey, gth.


knowledge partnership:
1. preparation of the hr analytics vertical for next level of service line
offering
2. preparation of pocs on talent & succession management, job evaluation &
compensation and competency mapping & career ladder.

aug '11 to may 2014 with divisional manager- hr with ranbaxy laboratories
limited.
one of the biggest one of the largest generic pharma- manufacturing company

highlights
 - organization change and design: rationzing the manpower to increase
 the span of control and reducing the hierarchy levels through simplicity,
 accountability organization structure with a cost saving of inr 40 mio.
 - job evaluation & compensation bench marking: supporting the on-going
 initiative in evaluation of various jobs (technical know hows, problem
 solving and accountability). using the same system for analysing the
 career progression, justification on promotion recommendations and annual
 merit increments.
 - - compensation & benchmarking: salary rationzation to across the
 division, compensation parity ensuring the budget expenses
 - hr analytics: identification of process improvement initiatives, process
 mapping and due diligence, documentation, warranty support and training
 of personnel.
 - talent acquisition: organization mapping of skill requirement, job
 rotation, rationization of cost and turnaround time. creation of systems
 - harmonization of hr systems and processes across the location.
 - manpower evaluation and rationzation: evaluate and finze long term
 and short-term managerial manpower and cost in consultation with business
 heads and annual operating plans and ensuring it complying with the
 budgeted cost and manpower target.
 - e-pms: communication and training program for expectation setting,
 performance rating moderation at the divisional level and promotion
 recommendations, mapping the functional and behavioural competency for
 individuals.
 - competency mapping: identification and vdation of generic and
 functional competencies, proficiency assignment for various roles and
 integration of the same with different hr systems and processes
 - talent management: facilitate talent management programs and increase the
 leadership bench strength, work out succession plans, career plans, job
 rotations and employee promotions.
 - employee engagement: facilitate formulation and implementation of action
 plans to ensure improvement in the engagement level through skip level
 meeting, attrition analysis, survey by external agencies.
 - learning and development: responsible for building strategic competencies
 & capabilities by providing need based training to focused groups through
 instructor led training programs, online modules. conducted technical and
 dip stick survey to identify the training need analysis of managerial
 population, identification of training programme, designing the
 programme, tracking the pre and post evaluation of training
 effectiveness.
 - data management and archival: generation of mis reports at the divisional
 levels, digitization of data
 previous assignment
oct '10 to august 2011 with tata motors limited, jamshedpur as key account
manager (hr)
one of the biggest auto manufacturing industries

highlights
 - hr analytics: identification of process improvement initiatives, process
 mapping and due diligence, documentation, warranty support and training
 of personnel.
 - cascade the business plan to division level and assess the managerial
 manpower requirement in various divisions / factories of tata motors as
 per the production plan and work out organizational restructuring
 proposals.
 - monitor the performance management system for managerial and executive
 grades.
 - responsible for building strategic competencies & capabilities by
 providing need based training to focused groups
 - facilitate talent management programs and increase the leadership bench
 strength, work out succession plans, career plans, job rotations and
 employee promotions.
 - measure employee engagement; facilitate formulation and implementation of
 action plans to ensure improvement in the engagement level.
 - redesigning the organization structure of world truck, maintenance and
 service planning function.
 - previous assignment
dec 2008 to oct '10 with indian oil corporation limited, corporate office,
new delhi as junior manager (hrd)
one of the biggest oil marketing company

highlights
 - identified 26 major engineering colleges, coordinated for the campus
 recruitment process -streamlined the recruitment activities
 - established the employee relations cells, coordination with the state
 agencies for back ground verification processes.
 - implementation of e-pms for the corporation. incorporated the training
 need analysis for the officers with our e-pms module. ensuring the mou
 targets cascades down with the departmental targets.
 - incorporation of succession management program for the critical positions
 in the organization.
 - drafting the code of conduct for the employees in psus.
 - previous assignment
may'07 to dec 2008 with trident group as manager, hr, projects, dhaula,
punjab.
a terry towel and wheat-husk based paper manufacturers and yarn spinners.

highlights
 - manpower planning of the entire project and preparation of recruitment
 calendar
 - performance management process initiation, analysis of the performance
 management plan, performance improvement plans.
 - conducted employee engagement survey- co-ordinated the shaan, muskaan
 initiative
 - co-ordinated the employee reward and recognition scheme and suggested
 areas of improvement
 - co-ordinated the leadership development, talent appreciation initiative
 co-ordinating with grow talent company limited.
 - streamlining the hr processes - facilitate smooth implementation of hr
 policies and procedures in the location.
 formulate framework around various aspects of hr
 - conducted employee satisfaction survey and reported the areas of
 improvement.
 previous assignment
mar'04 to jun'05 with steel authority of india limited (sail) as junior
manager, human resource development centre, rourkela.
a steel major in india

highlights
 - prepared of training manual on software packages for the senior operators
 and identified the training needs of the workers in the area of roll shop
 and hsm
 - involved in man power restructuring/re-allocation of roll shop and
 studied the effects of roll spalling in the rolling mills- redesigned
 inspection manuals; roll and bearing.
 - facilitated the special turnaround initiative by md sail, rsp, rourkela


 previous assignment
jul'02 to feb 2004 with infosys technologies ltd., as software developer,
apple, bhubaneswar
an it major in india

highlights
 - successfully incorporated a web based automated system for the marketing
 professionals data base request form (dbrf) enhancement,
 - migrated from apple marketing data base (amd) to apple marketing data
 base reporting (amdr) for senior and middle level managers in apple
 key project handled
mar'06 to apr'06
scope: analysis of trends of collective bargaining agreements, itc
kidderpore unit, kolkata, india which will help the ir managers to frame
the future collective bargaining agreements

oct'06
scope: developed a performance appraisal system of workmen at nestle india
and identified the possible hurdles in phasing out in any organization

nov'06 to may'07
scope: sstudy on "footwear industry in india" with mr s. samal, dgm, ub
group understanding the process involved in the unorganized high potential
footwear industry

 other distinctions

 - best programmer award at infosys technologies limited in 2003-2004 q1
 - 10th in mathematics olympiad from orissa, india
 - recipient of nehru memorial award, cii award rourkela chapters,
 - abvp best scholar award 1996 for class 10th performance
 - part time faculty at triumphant institute management education (t.i.m.e.)
 - professional tutorial for the management education aspirants
 - organizing member of the mechfest 2002 annual function of mechanical
 engineering department at nit, rourkela
 courses
human resources: performance management and appraisal, managerial
competency and career development, human resource planning, human resource
information system, psychometric testing, organization behaviour, labour
laws, industrial jurisprudence, organization change and development.

finance/economics: basic accounting, financial management, managerial
economics, economic indicators, database & estimation, industrial economics
& competitive strategies, economics of human resources, strategic game
theory for managers, macro economic policy and analysis.

strategy/miscellaneous: software project management and e-business, data
warehousing and data mining, operation research, executive compensation and
taxation, strategic management, international management and strategies of
co-operation

 computer proficiency

 - spss, sas( a data mining tool) windows, unix, macintosh, c, c++, java,
 html, oracle and visual basic.

 internships

title : developed maturity model on innovation & found out the market
potential for innovation in india
duration: apr'06 to jun'06
organization: grow talent company limited, bangalore (a strategic hr
 consulting and change management firm)

scope: detailed research on the top 20 innovating companies and their
practices.
 literature review on different models of innovation and their
 sent characteristics.
 literature review on the market potential for innovation in
 india.
 comparative study on different consulting firms practising
 innovation.

 date of birth: july 05, 1980

