
Slithice Siren

 slithicesiren@example.com
 kuala lumpur, malaysia
 +60123456789


 objective
to obtain a management position in the area of business development where
my contribution will add value to the organization.

 synopsis

 . over 10 years of rich experience in the areas of it sales and business
 development (solution sales and contract staffing)
 . expertise in the areas of it solution sales, contract staffing and client
 relationship management.
 . experience in handling large accounts.
 . good problem solving skill, relationship management
 . individual contributor


 career experience
key result areas

sales and business development and account management:
 . hardcore hunting and business development experience in selling software
 services and products
 . develop and manage sales opportunities from beginning to end including
 identification, qualification, prospecting, final selection, and closing
 . acquiring new clients in the assigned territory in bfsi, retail, it,
 manufacturing, services, industry.
 . account strategy and planning
 . market research

customer relationship management:
 . building and maintaining healthy business relations with clients,
 ensuring customer satisfaction by achieving delivery & service quality
 norms.
 . constant interaction with the clients to know their requirements.

zylog systems infotech sdn bhd: jan 2015 - present kuala
lumpur
sr. manager business development
 . zylog systems infotech sdn bhd. a subsidiary of zylog systems limited
 (zsl) a cmmi certified global system integrator headquartered in new
 jersey usa. zylog has global presence through middle east, europe, north
 america, singapore and malaysia.

responsibilities:
 . generate new business for the portfolio of service offerings.
 . responsible for building partnerships.
 . acquiring new clients in targeted market segments in bfsi, retail,
 manufacturing, telecom etc...
 . relationship management and account management with existing clients
 and prospects

responsible for the development and delivery of short and long term
strategic business goals.




tentacle technologies: jan 2013 - oct 2013
kuala lumpur
sr. sales manager
tentacle technologies is an it services and product company based in kuala
lumpur, malaysia, established in 2001, focusing mainly on:

 . application development & management
 . product development
 . system integration
 . staff augmentation


responsibilities:
 . identify key opportunities and work with the pre-sales function to
 create competitive proposal.
 . sales activities to convert prospects from leads
 . primary owner of the opportunity. involved in prospecting-qualifying-
 closing
 . building professional relationship with the senior management at the
 client/prospect to maximize the sales opportunity
 . closely working with the delivery team to ensure the deadlines are met
 resulting in client satisfaction.
 . responsible for the sales and business development of company's
 services and product in asia pacific region.
 . acquiring new clients in targeted market segments in bfsi, retail,
 manufacturing, telecom, healthcare domain
 . account management of the existing clients
 . market research





ascendum solutions: june 2009 - nov 2012
bangalore
associate manager: business development
 ascendum is a us based it organization focusing on
 . application development & management
 . product development
 . online payment gateway solution
 . database management &administration
 . independent verification & validation
 . staff augmentation
 . bpo


responsibilities:

 . identifying new customers in domestic and international market.
 . management of complete sales cycle for qualified set of accounts
 . revenue generation and growth plan for every account
 . responsible for increasing account penetration, customer satisfaction
 and sales growth for long term results
 . market evaluation for new business opportunities
 . managing relationships with customers and technical teams
 . ensure highest service levels and customer satisfaction




css corp: may 2008 - march 2009
bangalore
manager: business development

 css corp. provides it solutions on: infrastructure management,
testing, lotus notes, and technical support and staff augmentation

responsibilities:

 . identifying new areas of opportunity within the existing client
 . identifying new customers and pitching appropriate solutions to them
 . account management: account mapping and relationship management
 . managing relationships with customers and technical teams
 . involved in proposal preparation activity, and work closely with
 presales and delivery managers in identifying appropriate solution for
 the prospects



rjt compusolutions pvt. ltd. (subsidiary of rjt compuquest inc. usa) july
2007- may 2008 gurgaon
manager: business development : staff augmentation


 . successfully started the operation from scratch and achieved
 profitable business within 6 months since the inception of the
 operations.

responsibilities:

 . responsible for complete business relationship including business
 development, client relationship delivery, key goals include contract
 compliance, generate new business opportunities, effective usage of
 people management.
 . was leading a motivated work force consists of recruiters and sales
 team.
 . responsible for entire gamut of relationship including operations and
 service delivery, client relationship, business performance including
 finance & budgeting, cost management, monitoring p/l
 . business development by maintaining quality service with client
 procuring more business & acquiring new market
 . generating day to day reports to monitor individual performances
 . defined strategies and programs, then managed implementation to attain
 goals
 . periodical & annual appraisal for executives & fix targets for
 employees.


marlabs software pvt ltd september 2004 - june 2007
bangalore
executive: business development

responsibilities:

 . exploring new territories for business.
 . analysing and identifying potential clients.
 . business development through client development.
 . generating requirements from clients.
 . account management and business closures
 . coordination with in-house recruitment team and client.
 . rate negotiation with clients
 . salary negotiation with the candidates
 . involved in strategic business planning
 . coordinating walk-in drives
 . meeting corporate clients
 . nurturing client relationship
 . database generation
 . creating brand image.
 . involved in all post selection process.
 . invoice processing
 . payment collection







acedamic details

|institute / university |program |specializati|year/batch|
| | |on | |
|jaipuria institute of |post graduate |marketing. |2002-2004 |
|management, lucknow, u.p, |diploma in business | | |
|india. |administration | | |
| |(pgdba). | | |
|banaras hindu university, |bachelor of science |botany |1999-2002 |
|u.p., india. |(hons.) | | |



extra curricular activities/interests

 . played for the faculty of science (b.h.u) football team.
 . runner up in intra faculty football tournament in 2002.
 . i like traveling and listening to music.

i affirm that the above information is true to the best of my knowledge.

Slithice S.


